https://www.webmd.com/skin-problems-and-treatments/psoriasis/severe-psoriasis-19/psoriasis-treatment-options
severe-psoriasis-19.txt
## A Look at Different Psoriasis Treatments (Sponsored)
My ProfileWelcome 



My Tools
My WebMD Pages
My Account
Sign Out



My Tools

My WebMD Pages

My Account

Sign Out













Check Your Symptoms

Find a Doctor



HealthA-Z





Drugs &Supplements





LivingHealthy





Family &Pregnancy





News &Experts




MobileApps


Subscribe to FreeNewsletters

My ProfileWelcome 



My Tools
My WebMD Pages
My Account
Sign Out



My Tools

My WebMD Pages

My Account

Sign Out

A look at different psoriasis treatments


Is Your Psoriasis Getting Worse?



How Severe Is Your Psoriasis?



Therapies From Lights to Lasers



When Your Meds Don’t Work



How About a Combination Treatment Plan?



When Should You Consider a Biologic?



Handle Flares in Sensitive Areas



Top Triggers



Take a Closer Look at Your Skin



Find the right plaque psoriasis treatment for you.


There are many different treatment options available for plaque psoriasis. But for the 7.5 million people living with psoriasis in the US, the wide variety of options can make finding the right one even harder.

Finding the right treatment for you should always be a decision made with your dermatologist. That being said, it’s always a good idea to do your own research and go into your dermatologist’s office as informed as possible.

What to consider when thinking about treatments

Psoriasis is a chronic autoimmune disease (which means it’s lifelong) that starts inside your body.

Currently, there’s no cure for psoriasis—and as you may know from experience, psoriasis and the flare-ups it causes can be unpredictable—which can make it hard and frustrating to treat. But despite how frustrating it can sometimes be, there are treatments out there that can help manage your symptoms.

Below is a chart that outlines some of the different types of treatment options available for plaque psoriasis. Remember—always ask your dermatologist which could be right for you.

Think you’re ready to try something else? Make an appointment with your dermatologist and share your thoughts with them.

Curious about oral treatment options?

Click here to learn about a pill for plaque psoriasis.

© 2019 Celgene Corporation

WebMD does not endorse any specific product, service, or treatment.

More on Psoriasis































Health Solutions From Our Sponsors


Bedroom Germ Traps



Birth Control Online



The Fight Against Germs



Life After Cancer Diagnosis



Treatments for Psoriasis



Treat Pets for Fleas



CAR T Cell Therapy



Is My Penis Normal?



Birth Control Delivery



Life With MS



Personalized Supplements



First Aid 101



Kept Your Wisdom Teeth?



At Home Health Care



Immunotherapy for Cancer


Find WebMD on:


Facebook



Twitter



Pintrest



About WebMD



Advertise With Us



Terms of Use



Privacy Policy



Cookie Policy



Editorial Policy



Contact Us


























©2005-2019 WebMD LLC. All rights reserved.

WebMD does not provide medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. See additional information.

