https://www.webmd.com/skin-problems-and-treatments/psoriasis/skin-relief-17/latest-psoriasis-research
skin-relief-17.txt
## The Best New Medications & Treatments for Psoriasis
My ProfileWelcome 



My Tools
My WebMD Pages
My Account
Sign Out



My Tools

My WebMD Pages

My Account

Sign Out













Check Your Symptoms

Find a Doctor



HealthA-Z





Drugs &Supplements





LivingHealthy





Family &Pregnancy





News &Experts




MobileApps


Subscribe to FreeNewsletters

My ProfileWelcome 



My Tools
My WebMD Pages
My Account
Sign Out



My Tools

My WebMD Pages

My Account

Sign Out


Relief for Moderate to Severe Psoriasis



How to Stop the Itch



The Truth About Home Remedies for Your Skin



What's the Real Deal on Psoriasis?



Is Your Treatment Working?



Medications That Can Help



When Creams Aren’t Enough



Soothe Severe Cases Step by Step



Phototherapy Treatment



How Biologics Work



What's Down the Road in Remedies?



Life With Psoriasis: David's Story



Foods to Eat



Stress Relief That Works



Makeup Cover-Up Tips



Special Care for Nails



Pull Together a Strong Network for Support



Beauty Hacks to Start Your Day Right



Treat Your Skin's Cracks and Bleeding



How to Hide the Flares on Your Legs



When Your Psoriasis Is in Tough Places


The Latest in Psoriasis Treatment

In the 1960s and '70s, new info about how the immune system -- your body's defense against germs -- plays a role in psoriasis led to several new treatments. Drugs like corticosteroids, cyclosporine, and methotrexate became mainstays for managing the disease. For the next few decades, though, advances in treatment slowed down.

Thanks to recent progress in research, that's ancient history. New biologic therapies work well to treat psoriasis, and other new treatments are close to FDA approval.

New Era of Psoriasis Treatment

Research in psoriasis doesn't always make headlines -- or win funding -- like discoveries in cancer or heart disease. And studies are hamstrung by the one-of-a-kind nature of your skin. Unlike many other diseases, experiments on mice or other animals aren't very helpful.

In recent years, research into other autoimmune diseases brought new insights about the immune system. It turns out that some of the problems in those conditions are active in psoriasis, as well.

The new info brought treatments that target specific areas of your immune system. Called biologics, these drugs launched a new era of psoriasis treatment.

Biologics

They're medicines made from substances found in living things. Doctors inject these lab-made proteins or antibodies into your skin or bloodstream. Once inside the body, the drug blocks part of your altered immune system that adds to psoriasis.

In general, biologics work on psoriasis because they:

Curb T cells (a form of white blood cell)

Block a substance called tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha), one of the main messenger chemicals in the immune system

Stop a family of your immune system's chemical messengers called interleukins

Bind to proteins that cause inflammation

The patches and plaques of psoriasis come after an interaction between your skin cells and white blood cells. Biologics interfere with TNF-alpha or T cells, or they target interleukins. This short-circuits that unhealthy link. This will ease your inflammation. You'll have less growth of thick, scaly skin, too.

Biologic medicines approved by the FDA to treat moderate to severe psoriasis include:

Adalimumab (Humira), a TNF-alpha-blocking antibody

Adalimumab-adbm (Cyltezo), a biosimilar to Humira

Brodalumab (Siliq), a human antibody against interleukins

Certolizumab pegol (Cimzia), a TNF-alpha blocker

Etanercept (Enbrel), a TNF-alpha blocker

Etanercept-szzs (Erelzi), a biosimilar like Enbrel

Guselkumab (Tremfya), an antibody against interleukins

Infliximab (Remicade), a TNF-alpha blocker

Ixekizumab (Taltz), an antibody that binds to inflammation-causing proteins/interleukins

Risankizumab-rzaa (SKYRIZI), an antibody against interleukins

Secukinumab (Cosentyx), a human antibody against interleukins

Ustekinumab (Stelara), a human antibody against interleukins

Biologics are good at treating psoriasis. In clinical trials, each of the drugs lowered psoriasis activity by at least 75% in many people.

There are some drawbacks, though. Biologics can be expensive. Though they're safe for most people, they could raise your chances of infection, cancer, and other complications. Your doctor will need to keep close tabs on you to make sure you stay healthy.

Apremilast (Otezla)

Apremilast is a drug you take by mouth that's approved to treat psoriatic arthritis and plaque psoriasis in adults. It curbs phosphodiesterase-4 (PDE-4), an enzyme that controls inflammation.

Side effects include diarrhea, nausea, and headache. Some people in studies who took the drug lost weight. If you use the medicine, it's recommended that you check your weight regularly and watch out for signs of depression.

WebMD Medical Reference

 Reviewed by Debra  Jaliman, MD  on June 25, 2019


Sources


SOURCES:

Callen, J.P., Journal of the American Academy of Dermatology, 2003; vol 49: pp 351-356.

FDA: "FDA approves new psoriasis drug Taltz."

FDA: "FDA approves Amjevita, a biosimilar to Humira." 

Lebwohl, M., Journal of the American Academy of Dermatology, 2003; vol 49: pp S118-S124.

Lowes, M.A., Nature, 2007; vol 445: pp 866-873.

Nickoloff, B.J., Journal of Clinical Investigation, 2004; vol 113: pp 1664-1675.

Saini, R., Current Pharmaceutical Design, 2005; vol 11: pp 273-280.

© 2019 WebMD, LLC. All rights reserved.

More on Psoriasis Treatments














































Health Solutions From Our Sponsors


Bedroom Germ Traps



Birth Control Online



The Fight Against Germs



Life After Cancer Diagnosis



Treatments for Psoriasis



Treat Pets for Fleas



CAR T Cell Therapy



Is My Penis Normal?



Birth Control Delivery



Life With MS



Personalized Supplements



First Aid 101



Kept Your Wisdom Teeth?



At Home Health Care



Immunotherapy for Cancer


Find WebMD on:


Facebook



Twitter



Pintrest



About WebMD



Advertise With Us



Terms of Use



Privacy Policy



Cookie Policy



Editorial Policy



Contact Us


























©2005-2019 WebMD LLC. All rights reserved.

WebMD does not provide medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. See additional information.

