https://blog.ncqa.org/ncqa-speaks-2020-medicare-physician-payments/
ncqa-speaks-2020-medicare-physician-payments.txt
## NCQA Speaks: 2020 Medicare Physician Payments

































NCQA Speaks: 2020 Medicare Physician Payments

The proposed 2020 Revisions to Medicare Physician Fee Schedule Payment Policies are in.—NCQA reached out to the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) to comment. Here’s what was said.

What NCQA Supports What and Why?

NCQA supports the proposed move to Merit-Based Incentive Payment System (MIPS) Value Pathways (MVPs) in 2021. MVPs include smaller sets of specialty-specific, outcome-based and Alternative Payment Model (APM) aligned measures. 

Why are MVPs important?

They are key in producing accurate and comparable results. Not to mention, accurate results are a big priority for NCQA. Also, MVPs can provide more timely feedback to clinicians with claims, registry and electronically submitted data. This aligns with NCQA’s work toward digitized electronic quality measure reporting.

Why is electronic reporting the way to go? 

It lightens the load, measures what’s important and improves accuracy. However, it can be tough getting everyone on board.

CMS should consider offering financial incentives for moving to electronic reporting. Then support those incentives with stronger audits and certification requirements to further ensure accuracy of results. Currently, MIPS bonus points for end-to-end electronic reporting are a good way to provide financial incentives. Let’s make a good thing a great thing. Increase these bonus points, instead of phasing them out.

Since 2010, the federal government has provided more than $30 billion in incentives for the industry to go digital. But we need more incentives. MVPs are simply not enough to support all needed changes for digital reporting.

Jazmyne Carter is the Social Media Specialist at NCQA. Her passions include health care, family welfare and child advocacy. She has a background in journalism and strategic digital communications.

STAY CURRENT

Get NCQA’s Latest Updates

NCQA Blog Quick Links

Top Five Posts

MACRA: What’s Really in the Final Rule?




One More Step for Behavioral Health




Updating HEDIS® – What You Need to Know




Top Rated Health Insurance Plans in South Carolina




A Streamlined Path to HEDIS Retirement

Related Posts

      September 16th, 2019  NYS PCMH Recognition Coverage   



This summer, NCQA piloted a streamlined process to allow for quicker retirement of HE  

NYS PCMH Recognition Coverage

  



This summer, NCQA piloted a streamlined process to allow for quicker retirement of HE

      September 9th, 2019  Vote Peggy: Vote for Quality   



This summer, NCQA piloted a streamlined process to allow for quicker retirement of HE  

Vote Peggy: Vote for Quality

  



This summer, NCQA piloted a streamlined process to allow for quicker retirement of HE

      September 9th, 2019  Quality Champions:  Guides for Patient-Centered Care   



This summer, NCQA piloted a streamlined process to allow for quicker retirement of HE  

Quality Champions:  Guides for Patient-Centered Care

  



This summer, NCQA piloted a streamlined process to allow for quicker retirement of HE

      August 29th, 2019  HPA 2020: Align Health Plan Accreditation and Ratings   



This summer, NCQA piloted a streamlined process to allow for quicker retirement of HE  

HPA 2020: Align Health Plan Accreditation and Ratings

  



This summer, NCQA piloted a streamlined process to allow for quicker retirement of HE

      August 19th, 2019  Family Health Costs Rising Fast   



This summer, NCQA piloted a streamlined process to allow for quicker retirement of HE  

Family Health Costs Rising Fast

  



This summer, NCQA piloted a streamlined process to allow for quicker retirement of HE

Receive great posts like these in your inbox

Subscribe to NCQA emails now

