https://www.webmd.com/balance/healthy-habits-19/maintain-gut-health
healthy-habits-19.txt
## 4 Tasty Ways to Complement a Healthy Lifestyle (Sponsored)
My ProfileWelcome 



My Tools
My WebMD Pages
My Account
Sign Out



My Tools

My WebMD Pages

My Account

Sign Out













Check Your Symptoms

Find a Doctor



HealthA-Z





Drugs &Supplements





LivingHealthy





Family &Pregnancy





News &Experts




MobileApps


Subscribe to FreeNewsletters

My ProfileWelcome 



My Tools
My WebMD Pages
My Account
Sign Out



My Tools

My WebMD Pages

My Account

Sign Out

4 Tasty Ways to Complement a Healthy Lifestyle


Take Your Health to the Next Level



A Checklist of Healthy Habits



Steps You Can Take Today



Reasons to Get More Sleep



Boost Your Nutrition With Amazing Foods



Switch Up Your Exercise Routine



Beautiful Skin From the Inside Out



Mental Workouts: Keep Your Brain in Shape



Tasty Ways to Introduce Probiotics into Your Diet



        What makes you feel alive? Maybe it’s a long walk with your pup or getting out to the beach before dawn to catch the biggest waves. Maybe it’s being truly present with your friends and family or taking a moment to be still with your thoughts.
    


        Just as important as keeping up your physical prowess and mental calm is finding the right foods and drinks that fit your lifestyle. You may have heard the hype behind gut health—and it’s true. Your digestive system is teeming with trillions of bacteria and microorganisms that may help support your everyday health. They wear many hats, whether producing beneficial substances for your gut, helping to support digestion, or helping to protect against infection, among other things1.
    


        Taking care of this complex system helps it, in turn, take care of you. So how can you nourish it? Those good bacteria are alive and need to eat. Here are 4 tasty things to try:
    

1) Greek Yogurt


        Ever tried greek yogurt? It’s like plain yogurt’s cool older sister. The removal of whey in the straining process means the yogurt is thicker and creamier. It can also be packed with probiotics (check the label to ensure your favorite variety contains these good bacteria) and extremely versatile as an ingredient! Add berries and homemade granola with a dash of honey for breakfast, use it as a substitute for butter when baking (only use half the amount asked for!), or top off your baked potatoes with it instead of sour cream (swear you won’t taste a difference).
    

2) Kombucha and Probiotic Drinks


                KeVita Sparkling Probiotic Drinks and Master Brew Kombuchas are Alive Like You™ and are filled with billions of live probiotics and other organic ingredients, and come in a range of flavors. Looking for a spicy kick? Try the Sparkling Probiotic Drink in Lemon Cayenne. Get a taste of summer with Sparkling Probiotic Drink in Mojita™ Lime Coconut. And if you want to take your ginger love to another level, pick up KeVita’s Master Brew Kombucha in Ginger. It’s a refreshing way to end the day or to have something different and tasty around the house.
            

3) Fruits, Veggies & Whole Grains


        Fiber is the backbone of good gut health, and you can get it in so many ways like fruits, veggies, and whole grain pastas or bread. Its composition allows it to move down the digestive system without being completely broken down by the body2. When it arrives at the large intestine, the fiber helps feed the good microbes!
    

4) Fermented Foods


        So here’s the deal about fermentation: microorganisms like yeast or bacteria eat the available sugar and produce an acid that leaves that sour and funky taste3. Kimchi, sauerkraut, miso, and tempeh are just a few that use this process!†


Whatever you try, remember: consistency is key! Be well. Live well. Drink well.


The information in this article is the opinion of the author(s) and in no way reflects the policies or positions of KeVita. This is not intended to be a substitute for professional medical or nutrition advice.


1 https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4528021/

2 https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC5852598/

3 https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC5216880/

†The science linking fermented foods to gut bacteria is emerging and more studies are needed.

© 2019 KeVita.com

WebMD does not endorse any specific product, service, or treatment.

More on Healthy Habits




































Health Solutions From Our Sponsors


Bedroom Germ Traps



Birth Control Online



The Fight Against Germs



Life After Cancer Diagnosis



Treatments for Psoriasis



Treat Pets for Fleas



CAR T Cell Therapy



Is My Penis Normal?



Power Of Water Kefir



Life With MS



Personalized Supplements



First Aid 101



Kept Your Wisdom Teeth?



At Home Health Care



Birth Control Delivery


Find WebMD on:


Facebook



Twitter



Pintrest



About WebMD



Advertise With Us



Terms of Use



Privacy Policy



Cookie Policy



Editorial Policy



Contact Us


























©2005-2019 WebMD LLC. All rights reserved.

WebMD does not provide medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. See additional information.

