http://www.farlex.com/Grammar-Book/?e=farlex-tfd-ros-3&p=farlex-tfd-ros-3
Grammar-Book.txt
## The Farlex Grammar Book
THE MOST COMPREHENSIVE GUIDE TO ENGLISH GRAMMAR IN EVERYDAY SPEECH AND WRITING.

VOLUME I: COMPLETE ENGLISH GRAMMAR RULES


Complete English Grammar Rules is a comprehensive English grammar guide covering both basic and advanced grammar rules. 
			Learn proper English grammar with simple, in-depth explanations, 
			featuring key exceptions, common grammar mistakes, and thousands of real-world usage examples, 
			plus valuable grammar exercises - every topic includes a grammar quiz.
		

A grammar book for the 21st century from the language experts at Farlex and TheFreeDictionary.com, the online reference destination trusted by billions of users worldwide.

Finally, all the rules of English grammar, all in one place, explained in simple terms: 500+ pages of proper grammar instruction—3 times more information than the leading grammar book!

Quickly master basic English grammar while learning more advanced topics along the way.

Easily identify nouns, pronouns, verbs, adjectives, adverbs, prepositions, and other parts of speech.

Master verb tenses and conjugation, including irregular verbs and exceptions.

Learn about every type of sentence and avoid common writing mistakes.

Test your knowledge with grammar quizzes designed to help you retain the most important information.

VOLUME II: COMPLETE ENGLISH PUNCTUATION RULES


			Get the only punctuation guide with simple, easy-to-remember rules for all punctuation marks: periods; commas; semicolons; colons; question marks; exclamation points; apostrophes; quotation marks; hyphens; dashes; parentheses; and more (even lesser-known symbols). 
		


			Now is the time to stop making embarrassing errors and master correct punctuation once and for all.
		

Where to use commas

When to use a semicolon (and when not to)

Whether to place punctuation inside or outside quotation marks

How to properly form possessives and plurals

And everything you need to punctuate confidently!


		Stop guessing about proper punctuation. Instantly improve your writing with Complete English Punctuation Rules.
		

VOLUME III: COMPLETE ENGLISH SPELLING AND PRONUNCIATION RULES


			Did you know that more than half of the letters in the alphabet can be silent? With all the oddities of the English language, it's no surprise that the top two Google searches for "How do you…" are "How do you spell…" and "How do you say…."



			Forget about memorizing the hundreds of thousands of words in the English language. Get the only spelling and pronunciation guide that gives you all the tools you need to tackle even the hardest words to spell and say.
		

Correct and incorrect examples displayed side-by-side.

Quizzes after every lesson. 

Simple tips and tricks to avoid the most commonly misspelled words and pronunciation mistakes.


			Get Complete English Spelling and Pronunciation Rules and instantly start spelling and speaking with confidence. 
		

Preview

