https://www.hhs.gov/open/
open.txt
## Open Government at HHS | HHS.gov
About HHS

Programs & Services

Grants & Contracts

Laws & Regulations

Home > Open Government at HHS

Text Resize  
                                A
A
A


Print 

Share 
                                










Open Government at HHS

An open government uses transparency, participation, and collaboration to serve the American people. This helps the public hold the government accountable.

Learn more about the Open Government Directive

HHS Open Government Plan

We have continually developed our program areas to ensure accountability.

Read Our Open Government Plan Version 4.0 
		 


 

Previous Open Government Plans

HHS Open Government Plan Version 3.0

HHS Open Government Plan Version 2.0

HHS Open Government Plan Version 1.1

Initiatives

The programs below help us achieve our open government goals with expertise both inside and outside HHS.

Office of the Chief Technology Officer (CTO) / IDEA Lab

The Office of the CTO harnesses the power of data, technology, and innovation to create a more modern and effective government that works to improve the health of the nation.

Learn more about data, technology, and innovation at HHS

HealthData.gov

HHS provides open access to health information and health datasets generated or held by the U.S. government.

Explore HealthData.gov

Records & Reports

Read about the inner workings of HHS:

HHS Strategic Plan

Every four years, HHS updates its strategic plan. The Government Performance and Results Modernization Act requires federal agencies to consult with Congress and to solicit and consider the views of external parties.

Read the Strategic Plan for FY 2014-2018.

Public Access

The White House Office of Science and Technology Policy (OSTP) has directed all federal research agencies with more than $100 million in the annual conduct of research and development to develop plans for increasing access for increasing public access to peer-reviewed scientific publications and digital data resulting from federally funded research investments.


Read 22nd HHS Secretary Sylvia Mathews Burwell's cover letter


Read 22nd HHS Secretary Sylvia Mathews Burwell's cover letter


Learn more about our public access plans


Learn more about our public access plans

Prevention and Public Health Fund

Congress has directed HHS to provide information on activities and programs supported with resources from the Prevention and Public Health Fund.

Learn more about Prevention and Public Health Fund Activities.

Freedom of Information Act (FOIA)

FOIA is a critical part of Open Government that encourages accountability through transparency. We improve compliance and reform of FOIA as we develop our Open Government Plans.

Learn more about FOIA.

Records Management

Proper records management is the backbone of open government. Title 44 U.S.C. 2901 defines records management as “the managerial activities involved with respect to records creation, records maintenance and use, and records disposition in order to achieve adequate and proper documentation of the policies and transactions of the Federal government and effective and economical management of agency operations."

Learn more about Records Management at HHS.

Regulatory Review

The Department welcomes suggestions of regulations to review. You may think the regulation is obsolete, unnecessary, burdensome, or counterproductive, or you may think the Department should modify a regulation to increase its effectiveness, efficiency, and flexibility.

Learn how to Suggest a Regulation for Review.

HHS Sustainability

HHS outlines its path towards sustainable operation and efficiency with reduction goals to cut consumption and emissions, while increasing productivity and transparency.

Learn more about Sustainability at HHS.

Web Measurement and Customization Technologies

HHS discloses the use of web measurement and customization technologies to remember a user’s online interactions with a website or online application. We use these to measure and analyze usage or to customize the user’s experience.

Read the HHS.gov Privacy Policy.

Plain Writing

Clear writing is essential to transparency, public participation, and collaboration.

Learn about Plain Writing at HHS.

Language Access Plan

HHS provides access to HHS programs and activities for persons with limited English proficiency.

Read the HHS Language Access Plan.

Research and Scientific Integrity

HHS has policies and principles to ensure the integrity of scientific and scholarly activities that the Department conducts and supports and the science it uses to inform management and public policy decisions.

Policies And Principles For Assuring Scientific Integrity

Human Research Protections

Preparation, Submission, and Execution of the Budget

HHS ensures the transparent preparation and execution of our budget by making the following resources available:

Budget and Performance at HHS

HHS Open Government Financial Data Quality Plan

HHS Inspector General Audits

HHS Performance Improvement Summaries

Performance.gov

Conference Spending Reports

These reports include information about conferences held by HHS where costs exceed $100,000.

FY 2014 Conference Spending Summary
Conference Spending by Agency


Conference Spending by Agency

FY 2013 Conference Spending Summary
Conference Spending by Agency


Conference Spending by Agency

FY 2012 Conference Spending Summary
Conference Spending Details


Conference Spending Details

Presidential Actions, Executive Orders & Memos

HHS has compiled a listing of presidential actions executive orders, and memos related to open government.

View Presidential Actions, Executive Orders, and Memos

Connect With Us















Sign Up for Email Updates

To sign up for updates or to access your subscriber preferences, please enter your contact information below.

HHS Headquarters

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services
						200 Independence Avenue, S.W.
						Washington, D.C. 20201
						Toll Free Call Center: 1-877-696-6775​

Contact HHS

Careers

HHS FAQs

Nondiscrimination Notice

HHS Archive

Accessibility

Privacy Policy

Viewers & Players

Budget/Performance

Inspector General

EEO/No Fear Act

FOIA

The White House

USA.gov

