https://www.webmd.com/women/psoriasis-women-19/coping-with-psoriasis
psoriasis-women-19.txt
## How To Cope With The Psychological Efects of Psoriasis
My ProfileWelcome 



My Tools
My WebMD Pages
My Account
Sign Out



My Tools

My WebMD Pages

My Account

Sign Out













Check Your Symptoms

Find a Doctor



HealthA-Z





Drugs &Supplements





LivingHealthy





Family &Pregnancy





News &Experts




MobileApps


Subscribe to FreeNewsletters

My ProfileWelcome 



My Tools
My WebMD Pages
My Account
Sign Out



My Tools

My WebMD Pages

My Account

Sign Out


Women and Psoriasis: More Than Skin Deep



What’s Emotion Got to Do With It? The Toll of Psoriasis on Women



Stress Busters and Confidence Boosters That Work



Help Loved Ones Better Understand Your Journey



Stay Close and Connected



Are Flares Messing With Your Family Life?



Scaly, Itchy Skin Plus Your Role as a New Mom



The Benefits and Challenges of Exercise



Build a Support System



Psoriasis and Pregnancy



Nighttime Skin Care Routine


Managing the Emotions of Psoriasis

Most people think of psoriasis as a skin condition. But it affects a lot more than your skin.

“Unlike a health problem like diabetes, psoriasis is often visible to other people,” says Edidiong Kaminska, MD, a dermatologist at Northwestern Memorial Hospital in Chicago. “That can be difficult to deal with at times. And psoriasis is chronic, so it’s an everyday part of your life. That may take a toll on your mood, your self-confidence, and even your relationships.”

One study found that people with psoriasis have higher chances for depression and anxiety. And a third of adults with the condition say it interferes with their love life. 

But treatment and some small changes to your daily habits can help you stay happy and healthy, Kaminska says. When you take care of yourself mentally and emotionally, you’ll be more likely to feel in control of your psoriasis.   

Make Stress Relief a Daily Practice

Psoriasis patches can crop up with little warning. When they do, they may feel itchy, tight, and painful. “That can be stressful, even if you’ve been living with the disease for years,” Kaminska says. Trouble is, stress can trigger psoriasis flares and pain. You might feel like you’re stuck in a vicious cycle.

That’s exactly why it’s crucial to make stress relief a part of your everyday routine. How? “Exercise at least three times a week,” says Charles E. Crutchfield III, MD, medical director of Crutchfield Dermatology in Eagan, MN. As it boosts your mood, exercise also lowers inflammation and helps to keep your weight in check, which can ease your symptoms. Deep breathing, meditation, or time spent on something you enjoy, like chatting with a friend, also can tame tension and raise levels of feel-good brain chemicals called endorphins. 

If you can’t seem to shake the blues or a bad self-image, consider seeing a social worker or psychologist. Cognitive behavioral therapy, which is a form of talk therapy focused on watching for negative thought patterns to change your feelings and behavior, can be especially helpful. Your doctor should be able to recommend a therapist.

Lean on Your Loved Ones

If you’re feeling lousy, touching another person or talking about your psoriasis may be the last thing you feel like doing. But research shows that people with psoriasis who get social support feel better day to day and are less likely to have depression. Let your friends and family know how psoriasis affects you emotionally. “They may not ‘get it’ until you open up to them. But when you do, they’ll want to support you,” Kaminska says.

Fight Ignorance With Facts

You may be all too used to second glances and unkind remarks about your skin from others. People who don’t understand what the disease is may worry that it’s contagious or a symptom of another health problem. Have a fast, fact-based statement ready, says Carolyn Jacob, MD, who has psoriasis and serves as director of Chicago Cosmetic Surgery and Dermatology in Illinois. “I tell people who make comments, ‘I have psoriasis, which is a genetic condition. You can’t catch it.’”

Take Control of Your Treatment

A long-term disease like psoriasis can make you feel like you’re not in control. Others might have told you that you have to “learn to live with it.” That’s not true, says Crutchfield, who has psoriasis himself. “We have so many great treatment options available now. It’s entirely possible to reach a point where your skin is clear and you’re feeling good.” When that happens for Crutchfield’s patients, “Their moods improve,” he says. “They feel better about themselves and about life in general because their pain and irritation has let up.”

Don’t stop at medication, though. Eat a healthful diet, lose weight if you’re overweight, and stay active. Those steps can help you feel healthy and in control -- and ease your psoriasis symptoms, too.

WebMD Medical Reference

 Reviewed by Neha Pathak, MD  on February 19, 2019


Sources


SOURCES:

Edidiong Kaminska, MD, dermatologist, Northwestern Memorial Hospital, Chicago.

Charles E. Crutchfield III, MD, medical director, Crutchfield Dermatology, Eagan, MN; clinical professor, University of Minnesota Medical School.

Carolyn Jacob, MD, director, Chicago Cosmetic Surgery and Dermatology, Illinois.


Archives of Dermatology: “The risk of depression, anxiety, and suicidality in patients with psoriasis: a population-based cohort study.”


JAMA Dermatology: “Undertreatment, treatment trends, and treatment dissatisfaction among patients with psoriasis and psoriatic arthritis in the United States: findings from the National Psoriasis Foundation surveys, 2003-2011.”


Archives of Dermatological Research: “Social support and adaptation to the disease in men and women with psoriasis.” 

National Psoriasis Foundation: “Psoriasis and Intimacy,” “Genital Psoriasis,” “Stress and psoriatic disease.”

© 2019 WebMD, LLC. All rights reserved.

More on the Emotional Side of Psoriasis














































Health Solutions From Our Sponsors


Bedroom Germ Traps



Birth Control Online



The Fight Against Germs



Life After Cancer Diagnosis



Treatments for Psoriasis



Treat Pets for Fleas



CAR T Cell Therapy



Is My Penis Normal?



Power Of Water Kefir



Life With MS



Personalized Supplements



First Aid 101



Kept Your Wisdom Teeth?



At Home Health Care



Birth Control Delivery


Find WebMD on:


Facebook



Twitter



Pintrest



About WebMD



Advertise With Us



Terms of Use



Privacy Policy



Cookie Policy



Editorial Policy



Contact Us


























©2005-2019 WebMD LLC. All rights reserved.

WebMD does not provide medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. See additional information.

