https://www.webmd.com/home-health-care
home-health-care.txt
## Recover With Skilled Care From the Comfort of Home (Sponsored)
My ProfileWelcome 



My Tools
My WebMD Pages
My Account
Sign Out



My Tools

My WebMD Pages

My Account

Sign Out













Check Your Symptoms

Find a Doctor



HealthA-Z





Drugs &Supplements





LivingHealthy





Family &Pregnancy





News &Experts




MobileApps


Subscribe to FreeNewsletters

My ProfileWelcome 



My Tools
My WebMD Pages
My Account
Sign Out



My Tools

My WebMD Pages

My Account

Sign Out

Recover with skilled care from the comfort of home

When a loved one’s health declines, it is stressful for families. Worries about falls, medications, rehabilitation, and hospitalization can take their toll. Above all, families are concerned about their loved one’s recovery, and it’s difficult to know what the best solution is to help them do this. If this sounds familiar, you are not alone.

Often, the best option is to bring the care to your loved one so they can recover where they feel most comfortable: at home. Patients who receive skilled nursing care at home can avoid unnecessary hospital admissions, and, for those who qualify, home health care is covered 100 percent by Medicare and most private insurance.

Kindred at Home, the largest home health provider in the country, offers industry-leading, individualized care that can help your loved one get back on their feet and regain their independence in familiar surroundings.

How do you know if home health care is right for you?

Navigating your options for care can be confusing and overwhelming. When you call Kindred at Home, you’ll speak to a registered nurse right away—one who can knowledgeably answer your questions about you or your loved one’s health challenges and help you make choices you feel good about.

What the Kindred at Home team does

Kindred at Home care teams can consist of skilled nurses, social workers, home health aides, and occupational, speech and physical therapists who will help your loved one stick to their physician’s care plan—and achieve their own personal health goals. With their care team’s support, your loved one can improve their ability to independently manage their medical condition, restore their pre-admission level of activity, and avoid readmission to the hospital.

Types of care offered by the Kindred at Home team

There are a wide variety of home care services available, depending on individual circumstances:

Nursing, physical, occupational and speech therapy

Cardiac care

Pulmonary care

Fall prevention

Orthopedic care

Wound care

Neuro rehab

Social services

Services provided by the Kindred at Home team

Here are the kinds of things the Kindred at Home health team will address when they visit:

Complete assessment of their health

How to properly take medications

Individualized therapy to increase independence

Safety education in the home

Education of their diseases and when to seek help when symptoms arise

Pain assessment and management

Coordination of care with other members of the health care team

Diet and nutritional education

Community resources to maintain independence at home

A provider you can trust

Kindred at Home is the country’s leading provider of comprehensive home health care services, with an extensive network of experienced and compassionate clinicians. Their skilled care teams are committed to treating every client with the dignity and respect they deserve.

Speak to an expert today

Kindred at Home is no cost to those who qualify, and they accept most forms of insurance. If you or a family member is facing a recovery from illness or surgery, Kindred at Home registered nurses are available 24/7 to provide guidance and answer any questions you have about their services or your financial qualifications. Call 1.833.HOME.047 (833.466.3047) or visit http://kindredathome.com/HomeCare.

IMPORTANT:

WebMD and Kindred Healthcare respect your privacy choices. By completing the form below you will transfer your information to Kindred Healthcare and its designated parties in order to fulfill your request. Kindred Healthcare and its designated parties will use your information as outlined in the Kindred Healthcare Privacy Policy. Entry of the below information indicates your agreement with the Terms of Use.

Is Home Health right for you?

Provide your information below to download our free guide.

*Required

Thank you for your submission!

© 2019 Kindred at Home

WebMD does not endorse any specific product, service, or treatment.

Health Solutions From Our Sponsors


Bedroom Germ Traps



Birth Control Online



The Fight Against Germs



Life After Cancer Diagnosis



Treatments for Psoriasis



Treat Pets for Fleas



CAR T Cell Therapy



Is My Penis Normal?



Power Of Water Kefir



Life With MS



Personalized Supplements



First Aid 101



Kept Your Wisdom Teeth?



At Home Health Care



Birth Control Delivery


Find WebMD on:


Facebook



Twitter



Pintrest



About WebMD



Advertise With Us



Terms of Use



Privacy Policy



Cookie Policy



Editorial Policy



Contact Us


























©2005-2019 WebMD LLC. All rights reserved.

WebMD does not provide medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. See additional information.

