http://www.emedicinehealth.com/script/main/hp.asp
main.txt
## eMedicineHealth - experts in everyday emergencies, first aid and health information






Topics A-Z
Slideshows
Images
Quizzes
Supplements
Medications









Privacy Policy

About Us

Contact Us

Terms of Use

Advertising Policy



















©2018 WebMD, Inc. All rights reserved. eMedicineHealth does not provide medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. See Additional Information.

US Diet & Nutrition

The macronutrient diet among US adults improved from 1999 through 2016, but intake of low-quality carbohydrates and saturated fat remained too highLearn More

Home Remedies for Psoriasis

 There are things you can do on your own to get a handle on psoriasis. Try these remedies to relieve the itchView Slideshow

 on psoriasis. Try these remedies to relieve the itchView Slideshow

Asthma Quiz

What causes asthma? Are there home remedies? Test your medical knowledge to find outTake the Quiz

 Test your medical knowledge to find outTake the Quiz


Health News of the Week




New Kids' Guidelines: Drink Milk, Water, Avoid Plant-Based 'Milk'





IUD Use Linked to Reduced Risk of Ovarian Cancer





Valley Fever on the Rise and Spreading, CDC Says





Generic Zantac Distribution Halted Worldwide; Contamination Concerns





Obesity Poses Much Bigger Risk for Diabetes Than Bad Genes



See All News 


Health News of the Week




New Kids' Guidelines: Drink Milk, Water, Avoid Plant-Based 'Milk'



New Kids' Guidelines: Drink Milk, Water, Avoid Plant-Based 'Milk'




IUD Use Linked to Reduced Risk of Ovarian Cancer



IUD Use Linked to Reduced Risk of Ovarian Cancer




Valley Fever on the Rise and Spreading, CDC Says



Valley Fever on the Rise and Spreading, CDC Says




Generic Zantac Distribution Halted Worldwide; Contamination Concerns



Generic Zantac Distribution Halted Worldwide; Contamination Concerns




Obesity Poses Much Bigger Risk for Diabetes Than Bad Genes



Obesity Poses Much Bigger Risk for Diabetes Than Bad Genes

Popular Collections

Bad Bugs and Their Bites

Sex Drive Killers

Cancerous Tumors

Multiple Sclerosis

Adult Skin Problems

Habits That Wreck Your Teeth

Manage Diabetes in 10 Minutes

Erectile Dysfunction

Health & Medical Pictures, Images and Slideshows




Rheumatoid Arthritis
Learn how rheumatoid arthritis (RA) affects the body. Common RA symptoms and signs include fatigue and joint pain, stiffness, and swelling.
                    



Rheumatoid Arthritis

Learn how rheumatoid arthritis (RA) affects the body. Common RA symptoms and signs include fatigue and joint pain, stiffness, and swelling.
                    




Hepatitis
Hepatitis means inflammation of the liver. It can be caused by several viruses. The main types in the United States are A, B, and C.



Hepatitis

Hepatitis means inflammation of the liver. It can be caused by several viruses. The main types in the United States are A, B, and C.

Latest Images and Slideshows

Alopecia Areata: See a Picture of This Condition

Brown Recluse Spider Bite: See a Picture of This Spider Bite
            

Hand-Foot-and-Mouth Disease: See a Picture of This Condition
            

Shingles: See Pictures of Herpes Zoster

Enterovirus D68: Symptoms and Treatment for the EV-D68 Virus

Ebola Virus: Outbreak, Symptoms, and Facts

First Aid & Injuries Center

eMedicineHealth offers a wide array of first aid and emergency topics from cuts & wounds to broken bones to insect bites & stings. These include easy to read articles, slideshows, quizzes and visuals providing basic as well as in-depth treatment and procedures for injuries, first aid kits, CPR and more.
            

See the complete A-Z list of all the first aid related information or browse the current list of select resources.
            

Trending on eMedicineHealth

Encephalitis: What Are the Causes of Encephalitis?

Norovirus Infection: How Long Does Norovirus Last?

Dengue Fever: What Are the Symptoms and Signs of Dengue Fever?

Cancer Symptoms: 18 Signs and Symptoms of Cancer

Ovarian Cysts: What Do Ovarian Cysts Feel Like?

Liver Blood Tests: Normal and Abnormal AST and ALT

Frequent Urination: Are There Home Remedies for Frequent Urination?

Multiple Sclerosis (MS): What Are Multiple Sclerosis Symptoms and Signs?

Spondylosis: What Causes Lumbar Spondylosis?

West Nile Virus: Symptoms and Signs of West Nile Virus

Endocrine System: How Does the Endocrine System Function?

Featured Patient Discussions

Flu in Adults: What treatments and medications helped to alleviate your flu symptoms?


Strep Throat: Tell us your experience with strep throat


Sinus Infection: What signs and symptoms did you experience with your sinus infection?


Meningitis in Adults - What symptoms did you experience with meningitis?


Pleurisy (Pleuritis) - How was the diagnosis of your pleurisy (pleuritis) established?

Health Solutions From Our Sponsors

Bedroom Germ Traps

Birth Control Online

The Fight Against Germs

Life After Cancer Diagnosis

Treatments for Psoriasis 

Treat Pets for Fleas

