https://www.webmd.com/breast-cancer/metastatic-bc-forward-18/slideshow-breast-cancer-metastasis
metastatic-bc-forward-18.txt
## Slideshow: Where Breast Cancer Spreads: Lymph Nodes, Bones, Liver, Lungs, Brain
My ProfileWelcome 



My Tools
My WebMD Pages
My Account
Sign Out



My Tools

My WebMD Pages

My Account

Sign Out













Check Your Symptoms

Find a Doctor



HealthA-Z





Drugs &Supplements





LivingHealthy





Family &Pregnancy





News &Experts




MobileApps


Subscribe to FreeNewsletters

My ProfileWelcome 



My Tools
My WebMD Pages
My Account
Sign Out



My Tools

My WebMD Pages

My Account

Sign Out






What Does 'Metastatic' Mean?



What Happens After a Diagnosis?



Living With Metastatic Breast Cancer



Common Myths



How Life Changes



Pain Management



Palliative Care: An Option Worth Considering



How Clinical Trials Work



How to Talk With Your Family About Your Cancer



What Not to Say to Someone With Advanced Breast Cancer



Inspire Others With Your Story



Explore Treatments for Metastatic Breast Cancer



Where It Spreads



The Best Therapy for Me



Lean on Your Care Team



Build Your Support Community



What You Need at Home



What Your Friends Want to Know



Tips to Take Care of Yourself



How to Handle Work


Slideshow: Where Breast Cancer Spreads

When Cancer Goes Beyond Your Breast

If your doctor told you that your breast cancer has spread to other parts of your body, it's at a more advanced stage than if it's only in your breasts. How far it has spread is one of the things your doctor will consider when she tells you the "stage" of your cancer. It's considered "metastatic" if it has spread far from your breasts. Every case is different. For some women, it becomes something they live with for a long time. For others, focusing on pain management and quality of life is the main goal.

Most Common Places It Spreads

It's still breast cancer, even if it's in another organ. For example, if breast cancer spreads to your lungs, that doesn't mean you have lung cancer. Although it can spread to any part of your body, there are certain places it's most likely to go to, including the lymph nodes, bones, liver, lungs, and brain.

Lymph Nodes

The lymph nodes under your arm, inside your breast, and near your collarbone are among the first places breast cancer spreads. It’s “metastatic” if it spreads beyond these small glands to other parts of your body. When you're diagnosed with breast cancer, your doctor should check lymph nodes near the tumor to see if they're affected. The lymph system helps drain bacteria and other harmful things from your body. You might not notice symptoms if your breast cancer is in these nodes.

Bones

When breast cancer is in your bones, pain is usually the first symptom. It can affect any bone, including the spine, arms, and legs. Sometimes the bone may be weak enough to break, but treatment often prevents that. If the cancer involves your spine, it can also cause problems with incontinence or going to the bathroom. You might also have numbness or weakness in a part of your body, like an arm or leg. That happens when there’s pressure on the nerves of the spinal cord.

Liver

If breast cancer spreads to your liver, you may have pain in your belly that doesn’t go away, or you might feel bloated or full. You might also lose your appetite and lose weight. You may notice that your skin and the whites of your eyes are turning yellow, which is called jaundice. That happens because your liver isn’t working right.

Lungs

Breast cancer can spread to the lungs or to the space between the lung and the chest wall, making fluid build up around the lung. Symptoms can include shortness of breath, a cough that won’t go away, and chest pain. Some people lose their appetite, leading to weight loss.

Brain

It's possible for breast cancer to spread to the brain. That can cause headaches that throw off your balance and make falls more likely. You may have numbness or weakness in one part of your body. You might act differently, or you could feel confused or have seizures.

Treatments

You may need surgery, chemotherapy, radiation, and medications. The drugs your doctor recommends will depend on your type of breast cancer. For instance, if your breast cancer is HER2 positive, in which a certain protein drives the growth, your doctor may choose targeted therapy as part of your treatment. Pain management is also key so you can feel as well as possible. 

Up Next

Next Slideshow Title


Sources
|

Medically Reviewed on 12/01/2018

Reviewed  by Laura
		
		J.
			
			Martin, MD on  December 01, 2018


IMAGES PROVIDED BY:

1) STEVE GSCHMEISSNER / Science Photo Library

2-7) Susan Gilbert for WebMD

8) Jessica Key / E+

 

SOURCES:

Dana-Farber Cancer Institute: "Metastatic Breast Cancer Expertise."

Dr. Susan Love Research Foundation.

American Cancer Society.

BreastCancer.org

Inflammatory Breast Cancer Research Foundation.

National Cancer Institute.

U.S. Preventive Services Task Force.

Cancer Research U.K.: "Symptoms of Secondary Breast Cancer."

Reviewed  by Laura
		
		J.
			
			Martin, MD on  December 01, 2018

This tool does not provide medical advice. See additional information. 

THIS TOOL DOES NOT PROVIDE MEDICAL ADVICE. It is intended for general informational purposes only and does not address individual circumstances. It is not a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or treatment and should not be relied on to make decisions about your health. Never ignore professional medical advice in seeking treatment because of something you have read on the WebMD Site. If you think you may have a medical emergency, immediately call your doctor or dial 911.

WebMD Voices

Help others with metastatic breast cancer find inspiration and guidance

More on What to Expect































Health Solutions From Our Sponsors


Bedroom Germ Traps



Birth Control Online



The Fight Against Germs



Life After Cancer Diagnosis



Treatments for Psoriasis



Treat Pets for Fleas



CAR T Cell Therapy



Is My Penis Normal?



Birth Control Delivery



Life With MS



Personalized Supplements



First Aid 101



Kept Your Wisdom Teeth?



At Home Health Care



Immunotherapy for Cancer


Find WebMD on:


Facebook



Twitter



Pintrest



About WebMD



Advertise With Us



Terms of Use



Privacy Policy



Cookie Policy



Editorial Policy



Contact Us


























©2005-2019 WebMD LLC. All rights reserved.

WebMD does not provide medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. See additional information.

