https://www.mymedicare.gov/registration.aspx
registrationaspx.txt
## 
	MyMedicare.gov - Create account


  This application is not fully accessible to users whose browsers do not support or have the Cascading Style Sheets (CSS) disabled. For a more optimal experience viewing this application, please enable CSS in your browser and refresh the page.




Live Chat




 Log in



Español
          


Create account

 

All fields required.

Check your red, white, and blue Medicare card. Enter the numbers and letters with NO DASHES, spaces or extra characters. Check carefully, since letters can look similar to numbers. (The letters B, I, L, O, S and Z are not used in Medicare Numbers.)


            If you're new to Medicare and don't have your Medicare card yet, you can get your Medicare Number by logging into your Social Security account. If you need help registering, contact us at 1-800-633-4227. TTY: 1-877-486-2048.
        

Check your red, white, and blue Medicare card.

If you need help registering, contact us at 1-800-633-4227. TTY: 1-877-486-2048.

You’re accessing data on a U.S. Government Information System, which is owned and operated by the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS). The information accessed through this system is provided for use only by authorized MyMedicare.gov users. Unauthorized or improper use of this system or its data may result in disciplinary action, as well as civil and criminal penalties. If you’re not an authorized user, you must exit this system immediately! 
CMS takes steps to ensure the security of this system and its data. While using this system, your use may be monitored, recorded, and subject to audit.
Select the 'OK' button to continue with the registration process. If you choose not to continue, select the 'Cancel' button, and you will be redirected back to Sign Up page.

Footer


About Medicare



Medicare Glossary



Nondiscrimination/Accessibility



Privacy Policy



Privacy Setting



Linking Policy



Using this Site



Plain Writing


