https://www.webmd.com/multiple-sclerosis/ms-mind-19/ms-grey-matter
ms-mind-19.txt
## What Does Research Reveal About MS and Grey Matter? (Sponsored)
My ProfileWelcome 



My Tools
My WebMD Pages
My Account
Sign Out



My Tools

My WebMD Pages

My Account

Sign Out













Check Your Symptoms

Find a Doctor



HealthA-Z





Drugs &Supplements





LivingHealthy





Family &Pregnancy





News &Experts




MobileApps


Subscribe to FreeNewsletters

My ProfileWelcome 



My Tools
My WebMD Pages
My Account
Sign Out



My Tools

My WebMD Pages

My Account

Sign Out


Multiple Sclerosis and Your Mind



An Inside Look at Your Brain With MS



How Multiple Sclerosis Affects Your Mind



How to Talk to Loved Ones



Symptoms of Brain Fog



Tips for Mental Fitness



Everyday Mood Boosters



Different Symptoms, Different Treatments



MS and Deep Brain Stimulation



What Is Cognitive Rehabilitation?



The Benefits of Cognitive Therapy



How Changes in Grey Matter Affect MS


What Does Research Reveal About MS and Grey Matter?


		The brain is made up of two types of tissue: grey matter and white matter. For many years, research in multiple sclerosis (MS) focused primarily on white matter, which is where the majority of brain lesions occur. But research has evolved, and experts now understand that grey matter also plays a critical role in MS.
	

Advancements in MRI technology reveal new information


		Thanks to advancements in magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), MS healthcare experts are able to identify changes happening in grey matter—as they relate to MS—in more detail. For example, we now know that grey matter lesions, as well as a decrease in grey matter (also known as brain volume loss), are closely associated with physical and cognitive changes caused by MS. Cognitive changes can include worsening memory, difficulty concentrating, or trouble thinking of the right word.
	

Evolving research ties grey matter lesions to MS progression


		According to recent studies, MS lesions in grey matter may be more closely associated with physical disability and cognitive changes than lesions in white matter. “Grey matter loss is one of the best predictors of disease progression in people with MS,” says Dr. John DeLuca, a senior vice president for research and training at the Kessler Foundation. “Finally, we’re seeing data that may help us better understand the mechanisms that drive this disease.”
	

By studying grey matter, we’ve become smarter about cognitive impairment in MS


		Dr. DeLuca also believes there is value in further study of the relationship between grey matter and cognitive issues in MS. Currently, the majority of research focuses on physical disability. However, up to 65% of people with MS will experience some degree of cognitive damage due to disease progression. According to a recent survey from the Multiple Sclerosis Association of America (MSAA), which was sponsored by Celgene, 78% of people with MS are concerned that cognitive impairment will happen to them.
	

A focus on grey matter can help doctors monitor MS more closely


		Dr. DeLuca says the time has come for doctors to consider using grey matter loss as a predictor of disability and cognitive impairment. “Grey matter loss could be a trigger for clinicians to watch their patients over time to monitor for potentially related problems. …The more specific we can be regarding the role of grey matter loss, the better we can care for patients with MS.”
	

If you’re living with MS, talk to your MS healthcare team about the importance of changes in grey matter. You can find a list of questions to ask at your next appointment by visiting MSMindShift.com



			A focus on the role of lesions in grey matter, and the impact of losing grey matter volume, is part of a new initiative called the MS MindShift. This initiative is designed to offer a new perspective on the role the brain plays in MS and help how people with MS live with their disease going forward. Learn more at MSMindShift.com



How Grey Matter Affects MS

Discover how lesions in grey matter impact MS progression.

© 2019 Celgene Corporation 05/19 US-CLG-19-0706

WebMD does not endorse any specific product, service, or treatment.

More on MS and Your Mind














































Health Solutions From Our Sponsors


Bedroom Germ Traps



Birth Control Online



The Fight Against Germs



Life After Cancer Diagnosis



Treatments for Psoriasis



Treat Pets for Fleas



CAR T Cell Therapy



Is My Penis Normal?



Power Of Water Kefir



Life With MS



Personalized Supplements



First Aid 101



Kept Your Wisdom Teeth?



At Home Health Care



Birth Control Delivery


Find WebMD on:


Facebook



Twitter



Pintrest



About WebMD



Advertise With Us



Terms of Use



Privacy Policy



Cookie Policy



Editorial Policy



Contact Us


























©2005-2019 WebMD LLC. All rights reserved.

WebMD does not provide medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. See additional information.

