https://www.webmd.com/asthma/allergies-asthma-18/child/avoid-asthma-triggers
child.txt
## Avoid Allergic Asthma Triggers: Dust Mites, Mold, Pollen, and More
My ProfileWelcome 



My Tools
My WebMD Pages
My Account
Sign Out



My Tools

My WebMD Pages

My Account

Sign Out













Check Your Symptoms

Find a Doctor



HealthA-Z





Drugs &Supplements





LivingHealthy





Family &Pregnancy





News &Experts




MobileApps


Subscribe to FreeNewsletters

My ProfileWelcome 



My Tools
My WebMD Pages
My Account
Sign Out



My Tools

My WebMD Pages

My Account

Sign Out


Help Your Child With Asthma



Cut Down on Asthma Attacks at Home



How to Avoid Allergy Triggers



Age-Appropriate Meds



Help Your Child Use a Nebulizer



Do You Have an Action Plan?



Handle Asthma Flare-Ups at School



Help Your Child During an Attack


Allergic Asthma Triggers to Watch For

If your child has allergic asthma and inhales one of his triggers, that can launch an attack, making him cough, wheeze, and have trouble breathing. It’s best to know what your child’s triggers are so you can help him avoid them altogether or at least keep them far, far away.

Each person has their own set of asthma triggers, but there are some common ones you can watch for.

Dust Mites

These tiny critters are one of the most common triggers of allergic asthma. They survive on the dead skin flakes that all humans shed naturally. They hide in sheets, mattresses, pillows, blankets, stuffed toys, carpets, curtains, and upholstered furniture. There’s not much you can do about shedding dead skin, but you can work to keep dust mites from bothering your family. Wash any bed linens that you can at least once a week in hot water, then put them in a hot dryer. Wash stuffed toys the same way. There are also special covers for mattresses and pillows. If you can, trade in carpets, rugs, and fabric furniture for wood, vinyl, and other smooth surfaces.

Cockroaches

These pests are everywhere but are most common in cities and in southern U.S. states. They eat and drink the same things you do: water and leftovers. But they (and their droppings) can trigger asthma flares. To prevent them, keep food stored in the fridge or in an airtight container, wash dishes right after you use them, sweep up any crumbs, and plug any holes or cracks that let cockroaches get inside. You can also set out traps. If you see any roach droppings, sweep them up right away and put them in the trash. And keep a lid on your trash can inside and take it out often.

Mold

It’s both an indoor and outdoor trigger for allergic asthma. Outside, it thrives in soil and plant debris, which doesn’t really pose a health problem. Inside, mold is a hazard, lurking in damp places like basements, the kitchen sink, and anywhere you have leaks or standing water. Your best defense is to get rid of as much moisture as possible from your home. Clean up any mold you can see, use exhaust fans when you’re in the shower, and run a dehumidifier or air conditioner. A drier house will also cut down on roaches and mites.

Animals

Cats, dogs, hamsters, birds, and other furry and feathered friends can also be asthma triggers. But the fur and feathers aren’t the problem. It’s the animals’ dander, urine, and saliva. If you don’t have a pet, it’s best not to get one. If you do, try to keep her out of your child’s bedroom and off of upholstered furniture and carpets. It’s also a good idea to bathe the pet at least once a week and vacuum or sweep regularly.

Pollen

Pollen allergies depend on where you live and the time of the year. For instance, pollen from trees tends to be a problem in the spring, while grass is a problem in the summer, and fall means weeds. (Climate change also means that pollen seasons can last longer than they used to.) Thunderstorms can also cause plants to release their pollen. Keep an eye on local weather forecasts and pollen counts, and have your child stay indoors on days when the counts are high.

Smoke

There are a million good reasons to keep yourself and your child away from tobacco smoke, and allergic asthma is one of them. Secondhand smoke is extra toxic to young children because their lungs aren’t mature yet. Make sure no one smokes in your home or your car. Other types of smoke, such as from wood-burning stoves, can also make asthma worse. If you can, avoid wood fires, inside and outside.

Smells

Many household products give off scents that can trigger an asthma attack. This includes cleaning agents with chlorine, scented candles, incense, hairspray, air fresheners, deodorants and perfumes, paint, and pesticides. Look for fragrance-free personal care products. If you need to use paint or pesticides, make sure your child is not nearby.

WebMD Medical Reference

 Reviewed by Dan Brennan, MD  on January 29, 2019


Sources


SOURCES:

UptoDate: “Trigger control to enhance asthma management,” “Patient education: Trigger avoidance in asthma (Beyond the Basics).”

Asthma and Allergy Foundation of America: “Allergens and Allergic Asthma.”

Environmental Protection Agency: “Asthma Triggers: Gain Control.”

American Academy of Allergy, Asthma & Immunology: “Indoor Allergens,” “Spring Allergies.”

CDC: “Common Asthma Triggers.”

Environmental Health Watch: “Controlling Asthma Triggers in the Home.”

American Lung Association: “Reduce Asthma Triggers.”

© 2019 WebMD, LLC. All rights reserved.

More on Your Child’s Asthma































Health Solutions From Our Sponsors


Bedroom Germ Traps



Birth Control Online



The Fight Against Germs



Life After Cancer Diagnosis



Treatments for Psoriasis



Treat Pets for Fleas



CAR T Cell Therapy



Is My Penis Normal?



Birth Control Delivery



Life With MS



Personalized Supplements



First Aid 101



Kept Your Wisdom Teeth?



At Home Health Care



Immunotherapy for Cancer


Find WebMD on:


Facebook



Twitter



Pintrest



About WebMD



Advertise With Us



Terms of Use



Privacy Policy



Cookie Policy



Editorial Policy



Contact Us


























©2005-2019 WebMD LLC. All rights reserved.

WebMD does not provide medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. See additional information.

